website: plannable import docs (#33266)
hashicorp/terraform: website/docs/language/import/generating-configuration.mdx

Terraform can generate HCL for resources which do not already exist in configuration. The HCL produced by Terraform is intended to act as a template, and contains Terraform's best guess at the appropriate value for each resource argument. You may find that you arrive at an ideal configuration by starting from the HCL generated by Terraform, removing some attributes, adjusting the value of others, and rearranging `resource` blocks into files and modules as appropriate.

To instruct Terraform to generate configuration during the plan, supply a file path with `-generate-config-out`. The file should not already exist. For example:

```
terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated_resources.tf
```

Terraform will generate configuration for any resources targeted by an `import` block that do not already exist in configuration, and write the HCL to `generated_resources.tf`.

## Workflow

Terraform generates configuration during the plan and writes the new HCL file to disk after the plan has completed.

### 1. Add the `import` block to configuration

```hcl
provider "aws" {
  region = "eu-west-1"
}

import {
  to = aws_iot_thing.bar
  id = "foo"
}
```

> ### 2. Plan the import

Reviewer: Can we tweak this to mention generating configuration?
```suggestion
### 2. Plan and Generate Configuration
```

Run `terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated.tf`. You should see output like the following:

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra white space:
```suggestion
```

```
$ terraform plan

aws_iot_thing.bar: Preparing import... [id=foo]
aws_iot_thing.bar: Refreshing state... [id=foo]

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # aws_iot_thing.bar will be imported
    resource "aws_iot_thing" "bar" {
        arn               = "arn:aws:iot:eu-west-1:1234567890:thing/foo"
        attributes        = {}
        default_client_id = "foo"
        id                = "foo"
        name              = "foo"
        version           = 1
    }

> Plan: 1 to import, 0 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

Reviewer: Does this plan not reflect that Terraform is going to be generating configuration? It might not, just curious! 👀

```

> ### 3. Review the generated code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Review Generated Configuration
```

> Open `generated.tf` in your editor and review the generated code. It should look like this:

Reviewer: Since folks won't actually run this we do not want to tell them to open their editors. 
```suggestion
In our example, we specified that Terraform should generate configuration in a file named `generated.tf`. The below code demonstrates what the `generated.tf` file might look like. 
```

```hcl
resource aws_iot_thing "bar" {
  name = "foo"
}
```

> Add or remove resource arguments as desired. Now is an appropriate time to add variables or references to other resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can review the code Terraform generated and add or remove resource arguments, variables, and references to other resources as needed for your configuration. 
```

> ### 4. Apply the import

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. Apply
```

> Run `terraform apply`. You should see output like the following:

Reviewer: I don't feel like we need the below code block, it doesn't show anything new so I think we can remove it and shorten this section to just:
```suggestion
Running `terraform apply` create and provisions your infrastructure. Ensure you add your generated code alongside your Terraform code to your version control system.
```

```
$ terraform apply

aws_iot_thing.bar: Preparing import... [id=foo]
aws_iot_thing.bar: Refreshing state... [id=foo]

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # aws_iot_thing.bar will be imported
    resource "aws_iot_thing" "bar" {
        arn               = "arn:aws:iot:eu-west-1:1234567890:thing/foo"
        attributes        = {}
        default_client_id = "foo"
        id                = "foo"
        name              = "foo"
        version           = 1
    }

Plan: 1 to import, 0 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
aws_iot_thing.bar: Importing... [id=foo]
aws_iot_thing.bar: Import complete [id=foo]

Apply complete! Resources: 1 imported, 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

```

Make sure that your generated code, along with your other Terraform code, is added to your version control system.

## Limitations

> Terraform generates configuration for importable resources during the plan by requesting values for resource attributes from the provider. For certain resources with complex schemas, it may not be possible for Terraform to construct a valid configuration from these values. In this case, you may see an error like the following when planning:

Reviewer: I think we could separate this out into two paragraphs for better flow:
```suggestion
Terraform generates configuration for importable resources during a plan by requesting values for resource attributes from the provider. For certain resources with complex schemas, it may not be possible for Terraform to construct a valid configuration from these values.

Terraform will throw an error like the one below if it does not receive values for resource attributes while generating configuration.
```

```
$ terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated.tf
╷
│ Error: Conflicting configuration arguments
│ 
│   with aws_instance.ubuntu,
│   on g.tf line 20, in resource "aws_instance" "ubuntu":
│   20:   ipv6_address_count                   = 0
│ 
│ "ipv6_address_count": conflicts with ipv6_addresses
╵
```

> In this case, Terraform still generates configuration and writes it to `generated.tf`. You will probably want to remove one or more of the `ipv6_address_count` and `ipv6_addresses` arguments.

Reviewer: Are there any other errors folks might run into? The error here feels pretty clear, but I'm trying to think if we should highlight any weird edge cases?
```suggestion
In the example above, Terraform still generates configuration and writes it to `generated.tf`. This error stems from a conflict between the `ipv6_address_count` and `ipv6_addresses` arguments. You could fix the error by removing one of these two arguments.
```

---
page_title: Import - Generating Configuration
description: >-
  Generate configuration and manage existing resources with Terraform using configuration-driven import.
---

# Generating Configuration

~> **Experimental:** Configuration generation is available in Terraform v1.5 as an experimental feature. Later minor versions may contain changes to the formatting of generated configuration and behavior of the `terraform plan` command using the `-generate-config-out` flag.

Terraform can generate HCL for resources that do not already exist in your configuration. Terraform produces HCL to act as a template that contains Terraform's best guess at the appropriate value for each resource argument. 

Starting with Terraform's generated HCL, we recommend iterating to find your ideal configuration by removing some attributes, adjusting the value of others, and rearranging `resource` blocks into files and modules as appropriate.

To generate configuration, use `terraform plan` with the `-generate-config-out` flag and supply a new file path. Do not supply a path to an existing file, this command creates a new one. 

> ```

Reviewer: Suggesting adding a language to these codeblocks:
```suggestion
```shell
```

> terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated_resources.tf

Reviewer: Suggesting adding the`$`, I think it's probably fine either way, but it might look nicer with it:
```suggestion
$ terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated_resources.tf
```

Reviewer 2: Another potential benefit, assuming docs get rendered in the same way as tutorials, is that the leading `$` within a triple-tick-block seems to trigger color coding (red dollar sign, quoted strings in yellow, etc).

```

If any resources targeted by an [`import` block](/terraform/language/import/index) do not exist in your configuration, Terraform generates and writes configuration for those resources in `generated_resources.tf`.

## Workflow

The workflow for generating configuration is similar to the [`import` block workflow](/terraform/language/import/index#planning-and-applying-an-import), with the extra step of generating configuration during the planning stage.  You can then review and tweak the file Terraform generates before applying your configuration. 

### 1. Add the `import` Block

```hcl
provider "aws" {
  region = "eu-west-1"
}

import {
  to = aws_iot_thing.bar
  id = "foo"
}
```

### 2. Plan and Generate Configuration
Next, you will run the `terraform plan` command with the `-generate-config-out=` flag and a file path.

> ```

Reviewer: Suggesting adding a language to these codeblocks:
```suggestion
```shell
```

    }

Plan: 1 to import, 0 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

╷
│ Warning: Config generation is experimental
│ 
│ Generating configuration during import is currently experimental, and the generated configuration format may change in future versions.
╵

──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Terraform has generated configuration and written it to generated.tf. Please review the configuration and edit it as necessary before adding it to version control.
```

### 3. Review Generated Configuration

In our example, we specified that Terraform should generate configuration in a file named `generated.tf`. The below code demonstrates what the `generated.tf` file might look like. 

```hcl
resource aws_iot_thing "bar" {
  name = "foo"
}
```

You can review the code Terraform generated and add or remove resource arguments, variables, and references to other resources as needed for your configuration. 

### 4. Apply
Running `terraform apply` create and provisions your infrastructure. Ensure you add your generated code alongside your Terraform code to your version control system.

> ```

Reviewer: Suggesting adding a language to these codeblocks:
```suggestion
```shell
```

$ terraform apply

aws_iot_thing.bar: Preparing import... [id=foo]
aws_iot_thing.bar: Refreshing state... [id=foo]

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # aws_iot_thing.bar will be imported
    resource "aws_iot_thing" "bar" {
        arn               = "arn:aws:iot:eu-west-1:1234567890:thing/foo"
        attributes        = {}
        default_client_id = "foo"
        id                = "foo"
        name              = "foo"
        version           = 1
    }

Plan: 1 to import, 0 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
aws_iot_thing.bar: Importing... [id=foo]
aws_iot_thing.bar: Import complete [id=foo]

Apply complete! Resources: 1 imported, 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

```

> Make sure that your generated code, along with your other Terraform code, is added to your version control system.

Reviewer: Suggest tweaking a bit further for brevity, but fine either way! 
```suggestion
Ensure you add your generated code alongside your Terraform code to your version control system.
```

## Limitations

Terraform generates configuration for importable resources during a plan by requesting values for resource attributes from the provider. For certain resources with complex schemas, it may not be possible for Terraform to construct a valid configuration from these values.

Terraform will throw an error like the one below if it does not receive values for resource attributes while generating configuration.

> ```

Reviewer: Suggesting adding a language to these codeblocks:
```suggestion
```shell
```

$ terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated.tf
╷
│ Error: Conflicting configuration arguments
│ 
│   with aws_instance.ubuntu,
│   on g.tf line 20, in resource "aws_instance" "ubuntu":
│   20:   ipv6_address_count                   = 0
│ 
│ "ipv6_address_count": conflicts with ipv6_addresses
╵
```

> In the example above, Terraform still generates configuration and writes it to `generated.tf`. This error stems from a conflict between the `ipv6_address_count` and `ipv6_addresses` arguments. You could fix the error by removing one of these two arguments.

Reviewer: (Adding this in case you didn't see the comment, but you can ignore if you did) Are there any other errors folks might run into? The error here feels pretty clear, but I'm trying to think if we should highlight any weird edge cases?

Author: Thanks. This is the main weird one for now that we haven't mentioned elsewhere. We may expand this section later (hopefully not too much!).

        attributes        = {}
        default_client_id = "foo"
        id                = "foo"
        name              = "foo"
        version           = 1
    }

Plan: 1 to import, 0 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

╷
│ Warning: Config generation is experimental
│ 
│ Generating configuration during import is currently experimental, and the generated configuration format may change in future versions.
╵

──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Terraform has generated configuration and written it to generated.tf. Please review the configuration and edit it as necessary before adding it to version control.
```

### 3. Review Generated Configuration

In our example, we specified that Terraform should generate configuration in a file named `generated.tf`. The below code demonstrates what the `generated.tf` file might look like. 

```hcl
resource aws_iot_thing "bar" {
  name = "foo"
}
```

You can review the code Terraform generated and add or remove resource arguments, variables, and references to other resources as needed for your configuration. 

> ### 4. Apply

Reviewer: Adding whitespace:
```suggestion
### 4. Apply

```

---
page_title: Import - Generating Configuration
description: >-
  Generate configuration and manage existing resources with Terraform using configuration-driven import.
---

> # Generating Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Generating configuration
```

~> **Experimental:** Configuration generation is available in Terraform v1.5 as an experimental feature. Later minor versions may contain changes to the formatting of generated configuration and behavior of the `terraform plan` command using the `-generate-config-out` flag.

> Terraform can generate HCL for resources that do not already exist in your configuration. Terraform produces HCL to act as a template that contains Terraform's best guess at the appropriate value for each resource argument. 

Reviewer: Taking Rita's suggestion from down below to tweak this sentence to include "import":
```suggestion
Terraform can generate code for the resources it plans to import that do not already exist in your configuration. Terraform produces HCL to act as a template that contains Terraform's best guess at the appropriate value for each resource argument. 
```

Starting with Terraform's generated HCL, we recommend iterating to find your ideal configuration by removing some attributes, adjusting the value of others, and rearranging `resource` blocks into files and modules as appropriate.

To generate configuration, run `terraform plan` with the `-generate-config-out` flag and supply a new file path. Do not supply a path to an existing file, or Terraform throws an error.

```shell
$ terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated_resources.tf
```

If any resources targeted by an [`import` block](/terraform/language/import/index) do not exist in your configuration, Terraform generates and writes configuration for those resources in `generated_resources.tf`.

## Workflow

The workflow for generating configuration is similar to the [`import` block workflow](/terraform/language/import/index#plan-and-apply-an-import), with the extra step of generating configuration during the planning stage. You can then review and modify the generated configuration before applying. 

> ### 1. Add the `import` Block

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 1. Add the `import` block
```

Add an `import` block to your configuration. This `import` block can be in a separate file (e.g., `import.tf`) or an existing configuration file.

> 

Reviewer: Okay, taking Rita's comment I do agree we can move the code block below here, so folks have context for the next sentences: 
```hcl
provider "aws" {
  region = "eu-west-1"
}

import {
  to = aws_iot_thing.bar
  id = "foo"
}
```

Reviewer: I don't feel strongly about leaving the provider in/out, so I'll leave that to you discretion @kmoe!

The import block's `to` argument points to the address of the `resource` instance this import is targeting.  If a resource in your configuration already exists at this address, Terraform attempts to import into that resource and does not generate configuration.

The import block's `id` argument is the resource's import ID. The identifier you use for the `id` argument is resource-specific. You can find the required ID in the [provider documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/browse/providers) for the resource you wish to import.

If your configuration does not contain other resources for your selected provider, you must add a `provider` block to inform Terraform which provider it should use to generate configuration. Otherwise, Terraform displays an error if it can not determine which provider to use.

> ```hcl

Reviewer 3: can we remove the provider from this snippet and just move the import block to after the 1st paragraph so the user sees the import block before we describe each field?

i dont think we need to show the provider block, it's enough to just mention in the last sentence

provider "aws" {
  region = "eu-west-1"
}

import {
  to = aws_iot_thing.bar
  id = "foo"
}
```

> ### 2. Plan and Generate Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 2. Plan and generate configuration
```

> You can instruct Terraform to generate configuration by running `terraform plan` with the `-generate-config-out=` flag and a new file path. Terraform displays its plan for importing your resource and the file where Terraform generated configuration based on this plan. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To instruct Terraform to generate configuration for the `import` blocks you defined, run `terraform plan` with the `-generate-config-out=` flag and a new file path. Terraform displays its plan for importing your resource and the file where Terraform generated configuration based on this plan. 
```

```shell
$ terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated.tf

aws_iot_thing.bar: Preparing import... [id=foo]
aws_iot_thing.bar: Refreshing state... [id=foo]

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # aws_iot_thing.bar will be imported
  # (config will be generated)
    resource "aws_iot_thing" "bar" {
        arn               = "arn:aws:iot:eu-west-1:1234567890:thing/foo"
        attributes        = {}
        default_client_id = "foo"
        id                = "foo"
        name              = "foo"
        version           = 1
    }

Plan: 1 to import, 0 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

╷
│ Warning: Config generation is experimental
│ 
│ Generating configuration during import is currently experimental, and the generated configuration format may change in future versions.
╵

──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

Terraform has generated configuration and written it to generated.tf. Please review the configuration and edit it as necessary before adding it to version control.
```

> ### 3. Review Generated Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### 3. Review generated configuration
```

> In our example, we specified that Terraform should generate configuration in a file named `generated.tf`. The below code is an example of a `generated.tf` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The example above instructs Terraform to generate configuration in a file named `generated.tf`. The below code is an example of a `generated.tf` file.
```

```hcl
resource aws_iot_thing "bar" {
  name = "foo"
}
```

> You can review the code Terraform generated and add or remove resource arguments, variables, and references to other resources as needed for your configuration. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Review the generated configuration and update it as needed. You may wish to move the generated configuration to another file, add or remove resource arguments, or update it to reference input variables or other resources in your configuration. 
```

### 4. Apply

> Running `terraform apply` imports your infrastructure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run `terraform apply` to import your infrastructure.
```

```shell
$ terraform apply

aws_iot_thing.bar: Preparing import... [id=foo]
aws_iot_thing.bar: Refreshing state... [id=foo]

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # aws_iot_thing.bar will be imported
    resource "aws_iot_thing" "bar" {
        arn               = "arn:aws:iot:eu-west-1:1234567890:thing/foo"
        attributes        = {}
        default_client_id = "foo"
        id                = "foo"
        name              = "foo"
        version           = 1
    }

Plan: 1 to import, 0 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
aws_iot_thing.bar: Importing... [id=foo]
aws_iot_thing.bar: Import complete [id=foo]

Apply complete! Resources: 1 imported, 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.

```

> Ensure you add your generated code alongside your Terraform code to your version control system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Commit your new resource configuration to your version control system.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: can/should they remove import blocks once the import is complete?

Reviewer: We talk about this in "Plan and Apply an Import" so I think we are good on this point.

## Limitations

> ### Conflicting Resource Arguments

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Conflicting resource arguments
```

> Terraform generates configuration for importable resources during a plan by requesting values for resource attributes from the provider. For certain resources with complex schemas, it may not be possible for Terraform to construct a valid configuration from these values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Terraform generates configuration for importable resources during a plan by requesting values for resource attributes from the provider. For certain resources with complex schemas, Terraform may not be able to construct a valid configuration from these values.
```

Reviewer 3: is this a provider error? should the user consider opening a bug report?

Author: It isn't a provider error, but I think the error message from the CLI could be improved to specify that - thanks!

Terraform will display an error like the one below if it does not receive values for resource attributes while generating configuration.

```shell
$ terraform plan -generate-config-out=generated.tf
╷
│ Error: Conflicting configuration arguments
│ 
│   with aws_instance.ubuntu,
│   on g.tf line 20, in resource "aws_instance" "ubuntu":
│   20:   ipv6_address_count                   = 0
│ 
│ "ipv6_address_count": conflicts with ipv6_addresses
╵
```

> In the example above, Terraform still generates configuration and writes it to `generated.tf`. This error stems from a conflict between the `ipv6_address_count` and `ipv6_addresses` arguments. You could fix the error by removing one of these two arguments, then running `terraform plan` again to check that there are no further issues.

Reviewer 3: im guessing this is because the resource supports multiple arguments but that the user must choose only one to create the resource? if so, let's say so explicitly so they understand why this may happen
